chore: improve worker docs (#649)
timescale/pgai: docs/vectorizer/worker.md

# Running on Timescale Cloud
When you install pgai on **Timescale Cloud**, the vectorizer worker is automatically activated and run on a schedule
so you don't need to do anything, everything just works out of the box.

> **How it works**: When you deploy a pgai vectorizer on Timescale Cloud, the vectorizer worker is automatically activated and run on a schedule.
> The scheduled job detects whether work is to be done for the vectorizers. If there is, the job runs the cloud function to embed the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How it works**: When you deploy a pgai vectorizer on Timescale Cloud, a scheduled job detects whether work is to be done for the vectorizers. If there is, the job triggers a cloud function to embed the data.
```

> **Disable the cloud function**: There are some instances in which you might want to run the vectorizer worker manually and disable the cloud function from running. You can do this by setting
> [scheduling => ai.scheduling_none()](/docs/vectorizer/api-reference.md#scheduling-configuration) in the configuration for your vectorizer. Then you can run the 
> vectorizer worker manually using the `pgai vectorizer worker` command or any other method discussed above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Disable the cloud function**: There are some instances in which you might want to run the vectorizer worker manually and disable the cloud function from running. You can do this by setting
[scheduling => ai.scheduling_none()](/docs/vectorizer/api-reference.md#scheduling-configuration) in the configuration for your vectorizer. Then you can run the 
vectorizer worker manually using the `pgai vectorizer worker` command or any other method discussed above.

On Timescale Cloud you can also always trigger an execution of the vectorizer by running `select ai.execute_vectorizer(<vectorizer_id>):`
```

> [!NOTE]
> Timescale Cloud currently does not support Ollama. To use Ollama on the data in your Timescale Cloud 
> service you need to disable the cloud function and run the vectorizer worker yourself.

# Running on self-hosted Postgres or other platforms

When you use pgai vectorizers on a self-hosted Postgres installation or another cloud provider other than Timescale Cloud, you have to run the vectorizer worker yourself. The vectorizer worker will connect to your database and process the vectorizers you have defined. You can run the vectorizer:
- Through the pgai CLI tool as `pgai vectorizer worker` (see [instructions below](#running-a-vectorizer-worker-as-a-cli-tool))
- Integrating the vectorizer worker as a background process into your own python application (see [instructions below](#running-a-vectorizer-worker-in-your-own-application))
- Using the vectorizer worker Docker image (see [instructions below](#running-a-vectorizer-worker-with-docker))
- In a Docker Compose configuration (see [instructions below](#running-a-vectorizer-worker-with-docker-compose))

## Running a vectorizer worker as a CLI tool

> **Prerequisites**: [Python3][python3] and [pip][pip]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites**: [Python (>= 3.10)][python3] and [pip][pip]
```

1. **Install [pgai](https://pypi.org/project/pgai/) from PyPI**

   ```shell
   pip install pgai
   ```

   The `pgai` command line tool should now be in your `$PATH`.
   
1. **Create a .env file**

   [Configure](#setting-api-keys-through-environment-variables-or-env-file) the API keys for your embedding providers by adding them to a `.env` file. For example, if you are using OpenAI, you can add the following:

   ```
   OPENAI_API_KEY=<your-openai-api-key>
   ```
   

>    Alternatively, you can set the API key through an environment variable, but this is less secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Alternatively, you can set the API key through an environment variable directly.
```

I don't think this impact security in a meaningful way. Both are basically clear text passkeys. Yes env vars are available to any program running in that shell but any app that runs also has access to your file system so... idk I'd just leave it out.

1. **Run the vectorizer worker**

    After you [define a vectorizer in your database](/docs/vectorizer.md#define-a-vectorizer), you run 
    a vectorizer worker to generate and update your embeddings:
    
    ```shell

>     pgai vectorizer worker -d <db-connection-string>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pgai vectorizer worker -d "postgres://postgres:password@host:5432/database"
```

    ```

For more configuration options, see [Advanced configuration options](#advanced-configuration-options) below.

## Running a vectorizer worker in your own application 

 **Prerequisites**: [Python3][python3] and [pip][pip]

1. Add the pgai package dependency to your project

   ```shell
   pip install pgai
   ```
   or add `pgai` to the dependencies in your `requirements.txt` file, `pyproject.toml`, or similar configuration file.

2. Add the vectorizer worker to run in the background of your application

   ```python
   from pgai import Worker

>    worker = Worker(db_url=<your-database-connection-string>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   worker = Worker(db_url="postgres://postgres:password@host:5432/database")
```

   task = asyncio.create_task(worker.run())
   ```

>    You can then shutdown the worker gracefully when your application shuts down:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   We recommend to shutdown the worker gracefully when your application shuts down. It wont cause problems if you skip this step and force kill the worker, but this ensures the last batch of work is finished if possible before stopping the process.
```

   ```python
    
    await worker.request_graceful_shutdown()
    try:
        result = await asyncio.wait_for(task, timeout=20)
        if result is not None:
            print("Worker shutdown with exception:", result)
        else:
            print("Worker shutdown successfully")
    except asyncio.TimeoutError:
        print("Worker did not shutdown in time, it was killed")
   ```
   
3. Make sure you add the API keys for your embedding providers to the environment variables when you run 
  your application. 
  

>     We recommend using a `.env` file to set the API key and then load the `.env` file using the `load_dotenv` function from the `python-dotenv` package.

Reviewer: Does the user have to run `load_dotenv()` or does the worker does this anyway? We should probably clarify that here.

    
    Alternatively, you can set the API key through an environment variable.
    
4. Run your application

For more configuration options, see [Advanced configuration options](#advanced-configuration-options) below.

## Running a vectorizer worker with Docker

**Prerequisites**:  [Docker][docker]

1. **Create a .env file**

    [Configure](#setting-api-keys-through-environment-variables-or-env-file) the API keys for your embedding providers by adding them to a `.env` file. For example, if you are using OpenAI, you can add the following:

   ```
   OPENAI_API_KEY=<your-openai-api-key>
   ```
   

>    Alternatively, you can set the API key by passing it as an environment variable in the `docker run` command below, but this is less secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Alternatively, you can set the API key by passing it as an environment variable in the `docker run` command below.
```

1. **Run the vectorizer worker**
  
    After you [define a vectorizer in your database](/docs/vectorizer.md#define-a-vectorizer), you run a vectorizer worker to generate and update your embeddings.

    ```

>     docker run --env-file=.env timescale/pgai-vectorizer-worker:{tag version} --db-url <DB URL>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker run --env-file=.env timescale/pgai-vectorizer-worker:{tag version} --db-url "postgres://postgres:password@host:5432/database"
```

For more configuration options, see [Advanced configuration options](#advanced-configuration-options) below.

# Configure the vectorizer worker

Most users of the vectorizer worker will need to set the following configuration options:

- [Setting the database connection string](#setting-the-database-connection-string)
- [Setting API keys for embedding providers through environment variables (or .env file)](#setting-api-keys-through-environment-variables-or-env-file)

Other, advanced configuration options are available, see [Advanced configuration options](#advanced-configuration-options) below.

## Setting the database connection string

The vectorizer worker needs to know how to connect to your database. You can do this by setting the `-d` command line argument or the `PGAI_VECTORIZER_WORKER_DB_URL` environment variable.

For example, if you are using a local Postgres database, you can set the database connection string as follows:

```
pgai vectorizer worker -d postgres://postgres:postgres@localhost:5432/postgres
```

## Setting API keys through environment variables (or .env file)

If you are using an embedding provider that requires an API key (which most do),

> you can set the API key through an environment variable or a .env file. We recommend
> using a .env file to set the API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can set the API key through an environment variable or a .env file.
```

Do we recommend that? I feel like for a real deployment I'd always use env vars while locally a .env file makes sense.

All of these options can be set through the command line arguments, environment variables, or through an argument to the `Worker` 
class constructor in the `pgai` Python package.

| Option | Command line argument | Environment variable | `Worker` class constructor argument |
|--------|-----------------------|--------------------|-------------------------------------|
| Control which vectorizers are processed | `-i` / `--vectorizer-id` | `PGAI_VECTORIZER_WORKER_VECTORIZER_IDS` | `vectorizer_ids` |
| Set the time between vectorizer worker runs | `--poll-interval` | `PGAI_VECTORIZER_WORKER_POLL_INTERVAL` | `poll_interval` |
| Set the number of asynchronous tasks running in a vectorizer worker | `-c` / `--concurrency` | `PGAI_VECTORIZER_WORKER_CONCURRENCY` | `concurrency` |
| Run the vectorizer worker once and then exit | `--once` | `PGAI_VECTORIZER_WORKER_ONCE` | `once` |

### Control which vectorizers are processed

If you want to run a vectorizer worker that only processes a subset of the vectorizers in your database,
you can do so by specifying the vectorizer ids you want to process. You can do this by using the 

> `-i` / `--vectorizer-id` command line argument. 

Reviewer: This should actually also take vectorizer names.

Author: Yup but leaving for later

A vectorizer worker can:

- Run all vectorizers:

  To run all current and future vectorizers:
  - cli: `pgai vectorizer worker`

>   - python: `worker = Worker(db_url=<your-database-connection-string>)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - python: `worker = Worker(db_url="postgres://postgres:password@host:5432/database")`
```

I'd replace that everywhere with the example simply because it is one less look up to do at a user.
